# Modeling-Dynamics-Ideal-Gas-Molecules
A framework to simulate and visualize molecular collisions, and extract thermodynamic insights using Python.

# Introduction
Imagine someone constantly throwing a ball at your head. Depending upon the size and mass of the ball, you may feel anything between mild annoyance and unbearable agony. And yet, there are countless such “balls” colliding with, not only your head, but your whole body every instant and you do not feel a thing. Nitrogen, oxygen, and water molecules in the air are in constant random motion around you, even when the air appears to be stationary. The result of the collisions of these molecules with you is that air exerts a certain pressure on you (termed atmospheric pressure). Since we are “used to” the atmospheric pressure, it does not feel like anything out of the ordinary, but if you are ever in an airplane or a hyperbaric chamber, where the pressure deviates from the atmospheric pressure, you may notice different sensations, like ear-popping, that are your body’s responses to changes in pressure.

A macroscopic understanding of pressure, and how it varies with the volume that a gas occupies was given by Robert Boyle in the 17th century, that is commonly termed as Boyle’s law. However, it was only a century later that a qualitative molecular picture was provided by Daniel Bernoulli to explain pressure, and also relate it to the temperature and kinetic energy of molecules. This “kinetic theory,” however, did not find much acceptance until, in the 19th century, James Clerk Maxwell, building on the work of Rudolf Clausius, formalized it in terms of a statistical law and Ludwig Boltzmann illuminated its relationship with entropy, leading to the formulation of the Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution of velocities of molecules in a gas. This eventually led to the development of a detailed theoretical treatment of gases from the molecular point of view, which was consistent with the well-understood macroscopic view.

In this article, we will try to link the molecular picture of gases with its macroscopic properties — that is, pressure, volume, and temperature — by performing a series of numerical simulations using Python.